# Getting and Cleaning Data

## Overview

This project is aiming to download partially structure data and transform it into a tidy data set. The data is taken from [The UCI Machine Learning Repository](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).

## Course Project definition

You should create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following:

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive activity names.
5. Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

## Steps involved to obtain the results

1. Download the data source at "https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip" and put into a folder called "data" in your project directory.
2. Add ```run_analysis.R``` to the project directory.
3. Before running the script, be sure you have set the right folder as working directory using  ```setwd()```
4. Run ```source("run_analysis.R")```. A new file called ```tiny_data.txt``` will be created in the "YOUR_DIRECTORY/data" folder, containing the tidy data 

## Dependencies

```run_analysis.R``` depends on ```reshape2``` and ```data.table``` but the script takes care of including the libraries.
